http://lim.univ-reunion.fr/seminaire/2016/




Le séminaire du Laboratoire | Laboratoire d'Informatique et de Mathématiques





		



















			var $jq = jQuery.noConflict();
			
var slider_posts = [{title:"Séminaire des doctorants du LIM, Session 2017",author:"Xavier NICOLAY",date:"1 année",excerpt:"",thumbnail:"http://lim.univ-reunion.fr/wp-content/uploads/2015/07/seminaire-doctorants.jpg",url:"http://lim.univ-reunion.fr/seminaire-des-doctorants-du-lim-session-2017/"},{title:"GIIS2017",author:"Xavier NICOLAY",date:"1 année",excerpt:"",thumbnail:"http://lim.univ-reunion.fr/wp-content/uploads/2017/04/AfficheGIIS.jpg",url:"http://lim.univ-reunion.fr/giis2017/"}];
		









Organisation

Présentation
Organigramme
Instances de gouvernance
Les Personnels permanents


Axes

EDIM
ITA
MATHS


Séminaire
Productions

Publications
Thèses & HDR soutenues
Logiciels


Formations

Ecole d’Ingénieurs
Master Informatique
Master Mathématiques
Master MEEF
Doctorat


Annuaire
Contacts




Rechercher sur le site...







Le séminaire du Laboratoire






Les archives de 2016





DEC
15

13:30


Markov decision processes: building and playing a plantation game.

Teodor Kanpik

We consider Markov decision processes (MDP) as discrete-time stochastic
models of controlled dynamical systems. We view the problem of optimal
control as the problem of finding optimal strategy in a two player game
with a safety winning condition. To model biological phenomena with
unknown internal dynamics, we use partially observable MDP (POMDP)
which are a sort of combination of MDP and hidden Markov models.
Although computing infinite-horizon optimal strategy is not recursive
for POMDP, for a finite horizon, the problem is PSPACE-complete. POMDP
also turn out to be useful for forecasting.







NOV
24

13:30


Analysis of Internet Latency : the Reunion Island Case.

 

Internet connectivity is not fairly distributed around the world, in particular for islands or isolated areas. An example, the internet connection of Reunion Island is mainly based on links to France located about 10,000 kms away. 
This situation generated a particular connection which induced high delays and degraded internet service. Typically, the minimal delay between France and Reunion Island is around 180ms. In this paper, we investigate the performance of the Internet connection by analyzing delay and path properties from and to Reunion Island mapped to continent IPv4 spread. With two experiments, based on 27 local probes and 7,860,000 traces, we propose a correlation analyzing between delay and path properties. One particular finding is that the delay is more dependent of the chosen path as the geographical distance, compared to  models in literature.







OCT
20

14:30


Privacy-by-design and Privacy Best Practices.

Karima Boudaoud

Privacy-by-design is a concept defined by Ann Canouvian in the 90’s and published in 2009 to
ensure privacy of data. In this context, she has proposed 7 principles. The main goal of this
presentation is mainly to present these principles after un brief introduction on the difference
between Privacy and Security. Then we will see how privacy-by-design concept can/should be
applied when designing User Interfaces. Finally, we will finish with some best practices for
designing Web applications that respect privacy.







OCT
6

14:30


Caractérisation structurelle des graphes de Cayley.

Didier Caucal

On montre que les graphes de Cayley sont les graphes (orientés et étiquetés) déterministes,
simples, fortement connexes et sommet-transitifs : tous les sommets sont isomorphes. 
L'isomorphisme des sommets peut être remplacé par la condition que tous les sommets ont le
même langage des circuits. 
Sous l'hypothèse de l'axiome du choix, les graphes de Cayley étendus à toutes les parties
de groupe sont les graphes simples, déterministes, co-déterministes et sommet-transitifs.







SEP
8

13:00


Quelques classes de tournois.

Youssef Boudabbous

